what's the best way to schedule posts
for social media and is it even
something that you should be doing
because a lot of people believe that if
you use a scheduling app you're going to
get less views and engagement that's
exactly what we're going to be talking
about today we're going to dive into the
numbers we're going to look at whether
or not you should use a scheduling tool
I'm going to share with you my favorite
scheduling app that I personally use to
schedule all of my content across every
social media and really today's episode
is going to help you understand how you
can post more consistently or more
frequently on social media without
necessarily having to work more or spend
more time on your
phone my name is Brock Johnson and in
case this is the first episode you've
ever listened to I am the co-host of
this podcast the build your tribe
podcast with my mom today on the day of
release of this episode is my 10 148th
consecutive day of posting at least one
real on Instagram that's now almost 3
years straight of not missing a day of
posting on Instagram going all the way
back to April 1st 2021 and I've learned
a lot along the way because when I first
got started with this consistency thing
and this really hyper growth period on
Instagram at the time starting with less
than 60,000 followers now with about to
cross over 700,000 followers which is
crazy but over the years I have
definitely learned a lot because at the
very beginning I was making new content
every single day and I wasn't scheduling
anything there was almost no planning of
what was coming up what holidays were
coming what promotions did I want to
include what posted I wanted to make
sure get posted on certain days I was
really just flying by the seat of my
pants creating content every single day
and then posting it either that day or
at most posting it the next day and I
think the only reason that that was even
possible at that time is because this is
my full-time job I have a team who can
help me out I don't have any children my
full-time job is content creation and
being the CEO of the insta clubhub so I
can dedicate a lot of hours and a lot of
time and creativity and energy every
single day to creating content but I
didn't want to stay in that place I
didn't want to stay in a place where
every single day I was having to record
and create new content A and B it's not
very realistic for me to share my
personal feedback my stories my
recommendations with you because most
likely this isn't your full-time job or
even if it is you most likely have to
wear other hats besides just that of
content creator most of us are being
pulled in at least a couple different
directions if not 50 different
directions at once and so I think it's
important for me to today share with you
where I've gotten to now which is not to
jump too far ahead but I'm only creating
content about one or two days per month
and yet I'm able to have content
scheduled three or four weeks in advance
so I can sit back with an ease and a
peace of mind knowing that I don't have
to stress about creating content but
there will still be content shared my
audience will still get to receive
valuable educational entertaining
content every single day and my business
will be able to grow because of it I
think it's important to begin by
addressing a very common rumor and a
very widely held belief which is that if
you use a scheduling tool and let's
pause right there and let's Define what
I'm talking about when I use a
scheduling tool or when I say a
scheduling tool because not everyone
knows what I'm referring to I'm
referring to the apps and websites and
softwares that allow you to upload your
posts to them and then have them
automatically posted whenever you want
to in the future so rather than having
to open Instagram at 11:26 on Monday
morning and press post you can have it
scheduled weeks in advance and then the
scheduling tool will post it for you all
right now that we're on the same page
there let's go back to that rumor which
is that using said tools said apps said
softwares will lead to less views and
engagement and this is something that I
don't discredit you and I'm not trying
to poo poo you for believing in because
this is something that I used to believe
in myself and personally I believe this
to be true because I thought if you're
using a scheduling tool it's most likely
because you're not on Instagram and so
you're essentially going to be posting
and ghosting you're essentially going to
have a post shared at whatever time
you've pre-selected but you're not going
to be active at that time you're
essentially taking the social out of
social media and you're just scheduling
the media there's no actual engagement
there's no actual social interaction or
engagement and there's a few things that
I think I've learned over the years that
kind of have made me change my views on
this number one first and foremost it's
wrong to assume that just because you
have a post scheduled doesn't mean that
you're going to be active and that's
something that I've incorporated into my
strategy which is that when I have a
post scheduled I make sure that either
myself or someone on my team is ready to
be active at that time to stay engaged
and to network with my community to
answer comments and just to make sure
that I have a presence and I'm not
posting and ghosting the second thing
that I think is important to say is that
yes being social is important yes
responding to comments and interacting
with your community is definitely
valuable however I think we overweight
its importance and we stress ourselves
out too much thinking that we need to
spend all day on social media when the
reality is you can absolutely Ely grow a
following whether you're starting at
zero or you already have 100,000 you can
absolutely grow without being active on
the platform in terms of engaging with
other accounts you don't have to go out
of your way and spend hours every single
day engaging with other people and
responding to comments and commenting on
other people's posts and networking it
definitely has value don't get me wrong
don't get my words Twisted but it's not
as important as I think a lot of us
believe it is it has some value but it's
not going to make or break your
Instagram account and so if you're
someone who feels like ooh I shouldn't
post on Tuesday because I have a lot of
meetings and I got to take my kids here
and I got to do this thing over there
and I just I'm not going to have time to
respond to comments and be engaged on
Instagram so I probably just shouldn't
post I think that's the wrong way to
think about it I think it's better to
post and ghost than to not post at all
and that's my third point of why I've
changed my opinion on using a scheduling
tool is that posting period is better
than not posting at all I would rather
have you post and ghost than not post at
all I like to to say I'd rather have you
post and ghost than ghost and ghost
because at least if you're posting
you're showing up for your audience in
some way that post even if you don't
respond to any of the comments and if
you're not engaged at all with your
followers at least that post is
primarily serving people or it's showing
up on people's feed or it's entertaining
them at least you have that opportunity
to reach new people you might not be
engaged with everyone who it does reach
but at least it has the opportunity to
reach them if you don't post at all it's
like you're not even stepping up to the
plate you're not even stepping into the
Batters box and getting ready to swing
that baseball bat you're still just
sitting in the Dugout or maybe even
worse you're still just sitting at home
because you don't think you have time to
network with everyone I can tell you
that basically the conclusion of all
these studies is that there is little to
no change when using a scheduling tool
in fact I quote there has been little
concrete evidence to suggest that social
media algorithms penalize scheduling
posts compared to manually posted posts
so essentially if you're using a
scheduling tool you're not necessarily
going to get better or or Worse results
than if you're manually posting it so I
think it's very advantageous for you to
use a scheduling tool and let me share
with you six reasons why I think you
should use a scheduling tool why I think
it's beneficial for you and also kind of
how I use it myself number one I love
that I can have a team manage my
scheduling app which is something that
I've actually just begun doing within
the last month or two for the first 10
months or so that I was using a
scheduling tool I was manually
scheduling the posts myself I was going
in there and planning out all my content
but now I've passed that off to a member
of my team can be kind of like my social
media manager and she is a true manager
she is just managing when the post gets
scheduled she's not doing what a lot of
you expect your social media managers to
do which is also be a content creator
and a marketing strategist and a sales
strategist and all that other stuff
quick sidebar for anyone who has a
social media manager treat them like
such or if you're going to treat them as
something else then pay them as such but
anyways I digress I now have a team
member who can manage my scheduling of
my posts and then I can just go in there
pretty much on like a weekly basis once
a week and just just make sure that
everything looks good make sure that
everything is scheduled when I want it
to or when I need it to be scheduled the
second reason that I love using a
scheduling tool is multi Channel
presence now you don't need to be Omni
Channel present you don't need to show
up on every single Social Network I
actually think it's beneficial when
you're first getting started to pick one
and focus the majority of your efforts
on that one platform and then take that
content and repurpose it very quickly
and easily onto another for example
maybe you're going to go Allin on Tik
Tok and then you're going to take those
short form videos and so post them on
reals and maybe YouTube shorts but
you're not going to really worry as much
about Instagram or YouTube you're really
just going to focus on Tik Tok I do
think that's beneficial when you're
first getting started but as you grow as
your brand grows as you start to develop
this personal brand and you start to
become known and you want to diversify
your incomes it can be really beneficial
to post on multiple social media
platforms even if you're getting low
views on those platforms even if you
don't have a ton of followers even if
you feel like your audience like your
demographic of follower or isn't on that
platform it can still be really
beneficial to show up there for example
maybe you are used to getting 100,000
views every single time you post on
Instagram reals but you want to also
reach an audience on Tik Tok because you
know there's a certain amount of your
followers a certain amount of your ideal
customers who are on Tik Tok who for
whatever reason maybe they don't follow
you on Instagram they don't know you
exist on Instagram they don't use
Instagram or maybe they even do follow
you on Instagram but they just don't see
your posts anymore so you're going to
post consistently on Tik Tok and maybe
you're only going to get 200 views but
those 200 viewers are all the ideal
followers who you are looking for so
that's kind of how I look at it even
though I'm someone who has this massive
following on Instagram I might have a
very small following on things like
Twitter or on Tik Tok but I'm still
consistently posting there because I
recognize that a certain percentage of
my ideal followers who will hopefully
become my ideal customers they're on
those platforms and so I want to make
sure that my content has the opportunity
to reach them no matter where they are
and that's one of the real benefits of
using a scheduling tool most scheduling
tools and the one I'm going to recommend
for you later in this podcast is one or
are ones that can post on multiple
platforms at the same time so it's very
very easy at least with the one I use to
upload my short form video and then I
can just check a little box that says
reals check one that says Tik Tok check
one that says YouTube shorts check one
that says Facebook reels and then I know
that that video is going to be posted at
the same time across all the platforms
and I don't have to worry about manually
opening every single platform to make
sure that I stay active the third thing
that I love about scheduling tools and
one of the reasons that I use them is
the very easy ability to track your past
post performance and compare all of
these different statistics and analytics
and just see how you're doing week over
week month over month even across other
platforms like hey maybe uh the certain
kind of video is performing very well on
YouTube but it's not performing as well
on Instagram and you can adjust your
strategy accordingly another thing that
you can do is you can figure out hey
this post was a real outlier from a few
months ago I'm going going to recreate
some new versions of it or maybe I'm
going to take that post from a few
months ago and I'm going to repost it
again these are things that are a lot
harder to do when you're just stuck
within the native platform and you're
just using the analytics that say
Instagram or Tik Tok provides instead
these thirdparty scheduling tools
oftentimes have much more advanced
analytics way better tracking so that
you can track better you can track more
and you can get more nuanced uh details
and feedback onto what posts are working
and what are not and honestly I think
the biggest thing that I love number
four on this list uh about scheduling
tools is just the peace of mind you know
like I said earlier when I was making
content every single day it was
stressful even for someone who it was
their full-time job I had to make sure I
was ready to post every day and I posted
primarily my first post of the day was
usually at like 6:00 or 700 in the
morning so if I slept in I knew I was
going to miss my quote unquote ideal
posting window like I was going to be
later than normal it was going to be
different than what my audience expected
from me and so so it was stressful and I
did have to think about it every day it
was kind of always on my mind I couldn't
peace out for a few days and hang out
with friends I had to still make content
and I remember being on a trip with some
of my friends and literally having to
like step into the other room because I
wanted to record a real and I needed
something to post that day and so now I
just have this pieace of Mind where
again I just got back from that annual
trip with my friends literally last
night and that entire weekend I didn't
have to post on Instagram I didn't have
to worry about was something going to be
posted I didn't have to worry about
creating content that was all taken care
of weeks in advance so I could be
present I could detach from my phone and
I could spend more time being with the
people I love and doing what I care
about the fifth reason why I use love
and recommend scheduling apps is because
of consistency you can stay consistent
with your posting and also you can say
stay consistent with your strategy so
oftentimes we come up with a social
media strategy of you know maybe I want
to do three sales posts per month and I
have to do one brand partnership per
month and I want to post five times per
week and I want to make sure a certain
number of those are reals and carousels
you're able to stick to that strategy
much better when you plan in advance and
it's not like oh shoot today is the 23rd
of the month and I haven't posted any
sales related post this month oh shoot
in the next week I'm going to have to
post a bunch of sales related posts or
else I'm not going to have uh the same
sales numbers this month as last month
you're able to stay consistent and have
that ease of peace of mind you're able
to post regularly without worrying about
posting regularly and I truly believe
that if I hadn't learned how to batch
content and if I hadn't learned how to
schedule content and use a scheduling
app I don't think I would have made it
to where I am today where I've now
posted at least once a day for the last
thousand days I don't think I would have
gotten to that point without the help of
these tools even as consistent as I am
even as as as skilled as I think I am at
staying consistent and creating content
I just realistically know that life
would have gotten in the way and I would
have missed a few days here or there
which I should say it's okay to miss a
few days here or there but let's try to
put systems in place let's try to use
tools to prevent that from happening if
we can and then the sixth and final
reason why I use love and recommend
scheduling apps now when I didn't in the
past is because they actually have a lot
of advanced tools that you don't have
when you're just posting natively on
these social platforms so for example on
Instagram when you post often times you
want to get the conversation going a
little bit right you want to leave a
comment on your own post and maybe
you're going to ask a question that's
going to get some responses and generate
conversation or maybe you're going to
comment your hashtags on your post so
that they're kind of tucked away in the
comment section rather than in your
caption for whatever reason it's it's
very common practice for people to
comment on their own posts and be the
first comment on their own posts that's
something that you can't do in Instagram
or at least you can't schedule and plan
in Instagram if you're just to post on
Instagram you press post and then you
have to like manually go into your own
comment section and comment but with at
least the scheduling tool I use for
example I'm able to add a first comment
before that post is made so then when I
schedule it it automatically adds the
first comment on platforms like
Instagram and Tik Tok so then I don't
have to worry about going in and
commenting myself that's just one
example of the advanced tools there's
also Advanced tools like uh trackers of
when is your ideal time to post so it
shows you kind of like based off past
performance when is your best time to
post uh the scheduling app that I use
has AI built into it so I can use AI to
help me write captions faster or
generate titles uh for videos and so all
of those little things just kind of
speed up my process I can also crop and
edit videos right within the scheduling
Tool uh so it's very very allinone
allinclusive um and again it allows me
to post on all of these platforms with
these Advanced tools so I don't have to
worry about it but don't worry I won't
keep teasing you and I'm not trying to
keep it a secret as to what scheduling
app I use I've posted about it before on
Instagram let me say this first because
I know a lot of you may be thinking well
you know Brock I'm only really active on
one platform so I don't care about Omni
Channel presence I don't care about
posting on Tik Tok and YouTube and
Twitter I just want to post on Instagram
and I hear you and so you might be
thinking well I'm just going to use the
inapp scheduler I'm going to use the
tool in Instagram that allows me to
schedule Post in advance and you can do
that I've tried it I've done it myself
and what I generally find is like most
things especially within the metaverse
within Instagram Facebook and threads
it's glitchy it malfunctions there are a
lot of problems error bugs glitches that
occur I mean even myself last week I was
trying to schedule a post and I couldn't
schedule it for whatever reason
Instagram was glitching that day and I
should say I was trying to schedule it
within Instagram um and so I just
couldn't post I had to instead do some
like fancy footwork or set my alarm on
my phone to remember to post at the
right time and again for me that doesn't
work because I'm not Omni Channel
present then and I'm not able to post on
the platforms bottom line it's just
glitchy there's a lot of Errors there's
a lot of malfunctions that occur um and
so I'm not the biggest fan of using the
inapp scheduler whether that's the
built-in one in Instagram or using
something like meta business Suite to
schedule your post in advanced um and
then you also just don't have access to
the advanced features and tools and
analytics uh that a third party
scheduling tool uses and when I say
third party the third party is the
scheduling tool because the first party
is you the content creator the person
posting the second party is whatever
you're posting on Facebook Instagram
Twitter Tik Tok whatever and then the
third party is that app that is allowing
you to post so when I say third party
that's what I mean and I've tried out a
lot of different third party apps I've
tried out pretty much every scheduler
you can name anything that you can think
of anything that you've heard of before
I've probably tried it out and the one
that I personally fell in love with the
one that I still use to this day is
called metric cool and I feel very
fortunate that over the last few months
I've actually begun to work with Metro
cool so I've gotten to learn about some
of their new features before they come
out I've get gotten to give them some
feedback on things that I like and don't
like and things that I want changed from
the perspective of someone who is both a
content Creator and a business owner um
and they've been really receptive so if
you want to check out metrol it is free
to use their basic features but they
also have a paid subscription that's
monthly um where you can get access to
their Advanced features as well some of
their Advanced features include uh the
first comment tool and some of the other
things like that and so I mean I
recommend upgrading to the advanced
features I think it's worth it the pro
features um and you can get access to
those for free for a month as well so
you might as well try it out because
it's not going to cost you anything try
it out for a month and then can decide
if you want to stick with the pro
features or if you want to revert back
to just the free basic features the link
for that is down in the show notes below
this episode and make sure you use the
discount code Brock b r o c in all caps
make sure it's all capitalized b r o c
you'll use that and you can get your
first 30 days free of their Pro features
so hey you could try it out for a month
you can figure out if it's right for you
you can figure out if you like it maybe
put a system in place if you don't
revert back to uh the free features the
the basic features and you'll get to
keep using the platform for free free of
charge and uh keep experiencing the
benefits of using a scheduling tool so
again that's down in the show notes
below um and that's also linked up in
the description if you're watching this
on YouTube with that being said let me
share with you my five reasons why I
specifically love and prefer Metro Cool
are the following number one I already
talked about this a little bit but the
Omni Channel presence and I know a lot
of scheduling tools allow you to have
Omni Channel presence but I just love
the ease of using metrial I love how
easy it is to just tap on the little
Pinterest icon and boom my real can be
posted on Pinterest I love that I can
tap on the YouTube option and I have the
ability to schedule YouTube videos or
YouTube shorts give the title give the
audience description all of that from a
very easy to ous singular window the
second thing that I love about metrol is
that as an instagrammer myself I love
that I can see a preview of my grid in
advance now if you know me you know I'm
not going to tell you that your
Instagram profile grid needs to look
totally aesthetically pleasing and it
needs to be pre-planned and perfect and
beautiful and it needs to like perfectly
match up and all this good stuff I don't
think that's necessary however I do like
to look at my grin in advance to make
sure that there aren't going to be any
weird patterns that I accidentally
created or let's say on Monday I post
something that's like mostly black
background and like some white text on
it and then I post something on Monday
night that's like a real and then I post
something on Tuesday morning that's a
photo whatever and then on Tuesday night
I post another image that is mostly like
a black solid background and then it has
some text on it well that to me like
just rattling that off doesn't really
sound like anything that doesn't sound
like any alarms in my head but if I were
to look at my Instagram grid preview I
can see that now I have like these two
black boxes kind of like stacked on top
of each other maybe that's something I
don't want to create or maybe I have
used a similar hook in multiple videos
and in real life like in the the
timeline that we exist in those videos
were posted like 3 or 4 days apart but
because of the way they line up on my
grid it it makes it look like there's
like a column of videos that are either
the same or that have the same hook and
I just don't want those sorts of
patterns to occur without my knowledge
on my Instagram profile and so I love
that after I've scheduled a post in
metrol I can see how it's going to look
on my Instagram profile grid and then I
can make adjustments accordingly the
thing that I probably love the most
about metrol and the tool that I rely on
the most or that is the most beneficial
to me is the retroactive tracking and
what I mean by that is I I've only been
using metro cool consistently for about
a year now maybe a little bit more than
a year but it can track my posts going
all the way back to like I think over
three years ago so even before I started
using metrol they're able to look at
those analytics look at the statistics
and so I'm not limited to only analyzing
the posts I've made using metrol I can
analyze every post I've made even from
before metrol and that's a lot more
broad than what Instagram allows
Instagram technically allows you to look
at posts up to the last two years but
for anyone who's tried to use that
feature it's often times very glitchy
and usually Instagram will only be able
to show you posts from your last 365
days but of course there are posts that
you made 13 months ago that could be
very beneficial to recreate or repost
today so with Metro cool I'm able to
look at all of my content going all the
way back to somewhere in 2021 and I'm
able to analyze said content I'm able to
compare and contrast find the outliers
I'm able to find the content that I
should definitely recreate I'm able to
see things topics ideas captions
carousels photos reals whatever that I
posted a while ago that maybe I forgot I
posted or maybe I forgot that I had a
great tip relating to that topic that I
haven't shared in months and so I can
post about it now and it's very easy to
do so it's very easy to repost right
within metrial speaking of easy
reposting that's my fourth favorite
thing my fourth favorite feature of
metrol is how easy it is to take a post
from the past press the duplicate button
and then just reschedule it for the
future and so that way I don't have to
to necessarily like save my content in
like Dropbox or Google drive or whatever
I mean I I still do and I recommend you
do as well because you should have a
cloud storage system where you can keep
all of your content but even if I didn't
have that even if I didn't want to find
or I couldn't find the post that I made
two years ago I can find it because it
was scheduled in metrial press duplicate
and then just schedule it for the future
so it's very very easy to repost and
again I know we haven't focused a ton in
today's episode on social media strategy
and the actual techniques to creating
more content in less time we have done
that in past episodes so I definitely
recommend checking out some of the older
episodes of the show where we've dived a
little bit deeper into batching content
scheduling content excuse me not even
scheduling content but batching content
um and just creating more content in
less time with that all being said
though one of the best strategies one of
the least used strategies that I use all
the time but most people don't is
reposting your own posts like literally
taking something from the past and
reposting it again in fact about 75 to
85% of my posts are either Recreations
or reposts I believe it's somewhere
between 40 and 50% so about half of my
content is a direct repost something
that I've literally posted months prior
and I'm now directly reposting again and
it's very easy to do that within metrol
because I'm able to not just track and
see how well it did in the past but I
can literally just drag and drop it from
the past into the future and post it
schedule it for the upcoming days or
weeks and so it makes it very very easy
and seamless it copies my same caption
it uses the same hashtags it copies all
of the same data from the first time it
posted and posts it again and that makes
it just so much easier for me to plan
out content schedule content and just
make sure that I'm able to uh have that
peace of mind weeks in advance and then
my fifth and final favorite thing that I
love about metrol specifically is how
easy it is to collaborate with my team
for example let's say my social media
manager is scheduling posts she doesn't
have to schedule them to be
automatically posted like it's not like
schedule or nothing she can have it
scheduled she can also save it as a
draft so then it'll be at that time
it'll be in the draft it's ready to be
posted at that time but if that time
comes and goes and I never switch it
from draft to scheduled then it just
stays in the drafts it just kind of
stays there there's also send to review
so as she's scheduling content she can
tap send to review and then I get a
little ping to be notified to hey
there's this new content this's new post
that was scheduled I can now pop in
there I can review it I can make sure
everything looks good I can give it the
okay and press schedule and then there's
also a button that allows me to publish
now which oftentimes I'm like hey I want
to post on seven platforms at the same
time I want to make sure I post on
YouTube and Instagram and Tik Tok I
didn't schedule it in advance because
maybe uh it was like a piece of breaking
news or like a trending meme from the
Super Bowl that I wanted to suddenly use
and I can boom press that publish now
and it will automatically publish on
every platform that I've checked so with
that being said it's very easy it's
all-encompassing I'm a huge fan of
metrol and this is coming from someone
who's had a real change of heart because
I used to be anti- scheduling tool I
used to tell people recommend to my
students you probably shouldn't use one
you probably want to avoid one I've
since changed my mind I've since fallen
in love with metrol and then now they
have stared to work with me and partner
with me and I'm really appreciative of
that so again if you want to get one
month free of their Pro features just
use the code Brock b r c k available
down in the show notes below you can
click on the link to go directly to the
site get signed up try it out for a
month see if it works for you play
around with the tools and if you have
any questions about using metroo I will
say they have a great customer service
team so you can reach out to them I
should also say that it's it's very easy
to use metrol so I doubt you'll have
very many technical questions it's very
much like hey I want to post it 6: a.m.
so I tap on 6: a.m. and then I drag in
the post that I want to be shared um but
the third thing that I will say is if
you do have any problems uh feel free to
comment below on this video or reach out
via Instagram and I might be able to
help you get sorted out really quickly
but again link down in the show notes
thank you so much for listening today I
really appreciate you and while you're
on a separate tab or in a separate
window and you're signing up for metrial
hopefully maybe even while I'm still
speaking right now I recommend checking
out one of our previous build your tribe
episodes where we talked more about
batching content and how to create more
content in less time that should help
you layered on top of Metro cool it's
the the bread and butter it's the peanut
butter and jelly that's going to go
perfectly together handin hand so make
sure to get signed up for Metro Cool
grab the link down in the description
and I will also link up a uh episode
another episode down in the description
that should help you learn a little bit
more about the strategy of creating more
content in less time and until next time
happy
[Music]
networking